UFFE J. CARLSON  
De-risking Emerging Markets ($150M+ Secured) | AI-Driven Feasibility & Strategy | 25+ Years Experience

Carlson Capital Denmark

Esade
Accra, Greater Accra Region, Ghana  Contact info
3,164 followers 
500+ connections
Open to

Add profile section

Enhance profile

Resources
Open to work
Renewable Energy Specialist, Director of Operations, Country Manager, Project Manager and Project Specialist roles

Show details

Edit
AnalyticsAnalytics
 Private to you Private to you

35 profile views
35 profile views
Discover who's viewed your profile.Discover who's viewed your profile.
105 post impressions
105 post impressions
Check out who's engaging with your posts.Check out who's engaging with your posts.
Past 7 daysPast 7 days
29 search appearances
29 search appearances
See how often you appear in search results.See how often you appear in search results.
Show all analytics
AboutAbout
Making the complex simple through experience and AI.

For over 25 years, I have served as a Director and Strategic Advisor, specializing in the "hard stuff": comprehensive feasibility studies and de-risking market entry in complex African markets. I have successfully guided projects from Renewable Energy to Pharma, securing over $150M in funding by proving to investors that the risk is managed and the growth is real.

But the landscape is changing, and so am I.

I define myself as an "AI Integration Geek." I am passionate about using AI to solve old problems in new ways—specifically, taking the heavy lift out of big data. I use AI to distill complex market intelligence into clear, concise narratives that allow stakeholders to make faster decisions with confidence.

If you are looking for a multilingual leader (fluent in 5 languages) who blends traditional diligence with modern efficiency, let’s connect.Making the complex simple through experience and AI. For over 25 years, I have served as a Director and Strategic Advisor, specializing in the "hard stuff": comprehensive feasibility studies and de-risking market entry in complex African markets. I have successfully guided projects from Renewable Energy to Pharma, securing over $150M in funding by proving to investors that the risk is managed and the growth is real. But the landscape is changing, and so am I. I define myself as an "AI Integration Geek." I am passionate about using AI to solve old problems in new ways—specifically, taking the heavy lift out of big data. I use AI to distill complex market intelligence into clear, concise narratives that allow stakeholders to make faster decisions with confidence. If you are looking for a multilingual leader (fluent in 5 languages) who blends traditional diligence with modern efficiency, let’s connect.…see more
ServicesServices
Business Consulting • Brand Consulting • Advertising • Management Consulting • Pricing Strategy • Marketing Consulting • Project Management • Public Relations • Telecommunications • Information ManagementBusiness Consulting • Brand Consulting • Advertising • Management Consulting • Pricing Strategy • Marketing Consulting • Project Management • Public Relations • Telecommunications • Information Management
Show all services
ActivityActivity
3,164 followers3,164 followers

Create a post

Posts

Comments

Images
Loaded 9 Posts posts
View UFFE J. CARLSON’s  graphic link
UFFE J. CARLSONUFFE J. CARLSON
   • YouVerified • You
De-risking Emerging Markets ($150M+ Secured) | AI-Driven Feasibility & Strategy | 25+ Years ExperienceDe-risking Emerging Markets ($150M+ Secured) | AI-Driven Feasibility & Strategy | 25+ Years Experience
4d • Edited •  4 days ago • Edited • Visible to anyone on or off LinkedIn

https://lnkd.in/dFUFAJAQ

Just finished this project with Thomas Baafi and now sharing it with you. 
I am so proud of this project for Africa. So if anyone wanna join / call
Pan-African Credit Registry — CDH v2.1
africacredithub.com
like
2
1 comment




View UFFE J. CARLSON’s  graphic link
UFFE J. CARLSONUFFE J. CARLSON
   • YouVerified • You
De-risking Emerging Markets ($150M+ Secured) | AI-Driven Feasibility & Strategy | 25+ Years ExperienceDe-risking Emerging Markets ($150M+ Secured) | AI-Driven Feasibility & Strategy | 25+ Years Experience
1mo •  1 month ago • Visible to anyone on or off LinkedIn


Stephen Fry 💥
youtube.com





Show all posts
ExperienceExperience

Carlson Capital Denmark logo
Executive Business Advisor (Senior Consultancy Based)
Executive Business Advisor (Senior Consultancy Based)
Carlson Capital Denmark · Self-employedCarlson Capital Denmark · Self-employed
Sep 2007 - Present · 18 yrs 7 mosSep 2007 to Present · 18 yrs 7 mos
EMEA · HybridEMEA · Hybrid
Campaign Strategies, People Management and +47 skills

Welcome to Prince - Healthcare branding and communicationWelcome to Prince - Healthcare branding and communication
Orion Energy II ApS logo
Managing Director (Senior Consultancy Based)
Managing Director (Senior Consultancy Based)
Orion Energy II ApS · Full-timeOrion Energy II ApS · Full-time
Aug 2022 - Apr 2024 · 1 yr 9 mosAug 2022 to Apr 2024 · 1 yr 9 mos
Farsø, North Denmark Region, Denmark · HybridFarsø, North Denmark Region, Denmark · Hybrid
Spearheaded the end-to-end feasibility study for a 130MW decentralised solar farm in Ghana, conducting critical analysis on technical design, financial ROI, market demand, and regulatory requirements.

Validated project viability, leading to the successful negotiation of a 25-year Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with the Energy Company of Ghana (ECG), de-risking the project for investors.

Leveraged the comprehensive feasibility model to secure a $130M, 15-year investment from a Nordic fund and a $98M Engineering, Procurement, and Construction (EPC) contract.

Managed the project's feasibility lifecycle, including land acquisition analysis (210HA/$2.9M), risk modelling, and budget forecasting exceeding $150M, ensuring alignment with strategic objectives.Spearheaded the end-to-end feasibility study for a 130MW decentralised solar farm in Ghana, conducting critical analysis on technical design, financial ROI, market demand, and regulatory requirements. Validated project viability, leading to the successful negotiation of a 25-year Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with the Energy Company of Ghana (ECG), de-risking the project for investors. Leveraged the comprehensive feasibility model to secure a $130M, 15-year investment from a Nordic fund and a $98M Engineering, Procurement, and Construction (EPC) contract. Managed the project's feasibility lifecycle, including land acquisition analysis (210HA/$2.9M), risk modelling, and budget forecasting exceeding $150M, ensuring alignment with strategic objectives.…see more
Board Governance, Campaign Strategies and +42 skills
GoldenRace - Virtual Sports & Betting Solutions logo
Product Owner Consultancy
Product Owner Consultancy
GoldenRace - Virtual Sports & Betting Solutions · FreelanceGoldenRace - Virtual Sports & Betting Solutions · Freelance
Apr 2022 - Jun 2022 · 3 mosApr 2022 to Jun 2022 · 3 mos
Seville, Andalusia, SpainSeville, Andalusia, Spain
Hired to revitalise a flagship B2B SaaS platform for a leading global technology firm. Conducted a full feasibility analysis to identify critical UX pain points and operational inefficiencies.
Led a team of 35 developers and 2 Scrum Masters using Agile methodologies, translating strategic findings into a prioritised product roadmap.
Successfully executed a complete platform overhaul based on this analysis, resulting in a 40% reduction in user support tickets and a 25% increase in client retention.Hired to revitalise a flagship B2B SaaS platform for a leading global technology firm. Conducted a full feasibility analysis to identify critical UX pain points and operational inefficiencies. Led a team of 35 developers and 2 Scrum Masters using Agile methodologies, translating strategic findings into a prioritised product roadmap. Successfully executed a complete platform overhaul based on this analysis, resulting in a 40% reduction in user support tickets and a 25% increase in client retention.…see more
People Management, Strategic Thinking and +33 skills

GoldenRace | The Virtual Betting Games Solutions Provider for your businessGoldenRace | The Virtual Betting Games Solutions Provider for your business
GoldenRace provides the perfect betting solutions for your company success. Global leader in pre-recorded video sports betting. Using innovative approaches and completely reliable and secure technology. The market leader in Virtual Sports, Horse...GoldenRace provides the perfect betting solutions for your company success. Global leader in pre-recorded video sports betting. Using innovative approaches and completely reliable and secure technology. The market leader in Virtual Sports, Horse...
Communications consultancy and Business Strategist West Africa
Communications consultancy and Business Strategist West Africa
Communications consultancy and Business Strategist West Africa
Orion Advertising and publishing Company Ltd · Full-timeOrion Advertising and publishing Company Ltd · Full-time
Nov 2005 - Feb 2012 · 6 yrs 4 mosNov 2005 to Feb 2012 · 6 yrs 4 mos
Ghana, Accra · HybridGhana, Accra · Hybrid
Cultivated exceptional high-level stakeholder relationships, a capability demonstrated through a private audience with former President John Kufuor of Ghana in Accra (2010). This meeting, held during the tenure of President John Atta Mills, addressed media development and press freedom, stemming from my role as publisher of the "Enjoy Accra" magazine.

Provided strategic advisory for market entry to Fortune 500 leadership, including advising Sir Richard Branson on the feasibility and launch strategy for Virgin Atlantic's market operations in Ghana and Nigeria during this period.

Specialised in integrating localised payment solutions following thorough analysis of financial ecosystems, ensuring compliance and operational efficiency.Cultivated exceptional high-level stakeholder relationships, a capability demonstrated through a private audience with former President John Kufuor of Ghana in Accra (2010). This meeting, held during the tenure of President John Atta Mills, addressed media development and press freedom, stemming from my role as publisher of the "Enjoy Accra" magazine. Provided strategic advisory for market entry to Fortune 500 leadership, including advising Sir Richard Branson on the feasibility and launch strategy for Virgin Atlantic's market operations in Ghana and Nigeria during this period. Specialised in integrating localised payment solutions following thorough analysis of financial ecosystems, ensuring compliance and operational efficiency.…see more
Campaign Strategies, People Management and +25 skills



CTO and Joint founder
CTO and Joint founder
CTO and Joint founder
https://prince.es/greenmedica.html · Self-employedhttps://prince.es/greenmedica.html · Self-employed
Nov 1997 - Oct 2005 · 8 yrsNov 1997 to Oct 2005 · 8 yrs
Greater Barcelona Metropolitan AreaGreater Barcelona Metropolitan Area
Pioneered my feasibility study methodology in 1999 by conducting the inaugural market entry analysis for Novo Nordisk's launch of their groundbreaking insulin pen in Spain. The study assessed regulatory pathways, competitor landscape, distribution channels, and patient adoption drivers, creating the data-driven playbook for their successful market entry.

This foundational project established my consultancy, leading to 12+ years of advising Fortune 500 clients (Microsoft, Sanofi, BMW, Nestlé, Novartis, Virgin Atlantic) on market entry, business setup, and operations optimisation in over 20 African and European countries, all grounded in robust feasibility analysis.

Key Accounts
Microsoft, Novo Nordic, Sanofi, BMW, Bayer, Roche Diagnostic, Novartis Oncology, Schering, Nestlé, Roche Diagnostic, Boehringer Ingelheim, BMW, Honda, L’Oreal, Pioneer, Pirelli, and SonyPioneered my feasibility study methodology in 1999 by conducting the inaugural market entry analysis for Novo Nordisk's launch of their groundbreaking insulin pen in Spain. The study assessed regulatory pathways, competitor landscape, distribution channels, and patient adoption drivers, creating the data-driven playbook for their successful market entry. This foundational project established my consultancy, leading to 12+ years of advising Fortune 500 clients (Microsoft, Sanofi, BMW, Nestlé, Novartis, Virgin Atlantic) on market entry, business setup, and operations optimisation in over 20 African and European countries, all grounded in robust feasibility analysis. Key Accounts Microsoft, Novo Nordic, Sanofi, BMW, Bayer, Roche Diagnostic, Novartis Oncology, Schering, Nestlé, Roche Diagnostic, Boehringer Ingelheim, BMW, Honda, L’Oreal, Pioneer, Pirelli, and Sony…see more
Board Governance, People Management and +20 skills

Show all 6 experiences
EducationEducation
Esade logo
Esade
Esade
Master of Science - MS, International Relations and AffairsMaster of Science - MS, International Relations and Affairs
Jan 2003 - Dec 2005Jan 2003 - Dec 2005
Grade: 3.9Grade: 3.9
Stenhus Boarding College
Stenhus Boarding College
Stenhus Boarding College
Feb 1981 - Jun 1987Feb 1981 - Jun 1987
Licenses & certificationsLicenses & certifications
FileMaker Inc., an Apple subsidiary logo
Filamaker 13 Advance Database Development
Filamaker 13 Advance Database Development
FileMaker Inc., an Apple subsidiaryFileMaker Inc., an Apple subsidiary
Issued Jan 2013Issued Jan 2013
Apple logo
Apple OS X Server
Apple OS X Server
AppleApple
Issued Aug 2002Issued Aug 2002
ProjectsProjects
Enjoy Accra Magazine
Enjoy Accra Magazine
Aug 2006 - Jan 2011Aug 2006 - Jan 2011
Associated with Orion Advertising and publishing Company Ltd
Associated with Orion Advertising and publishing Company Ltd
Show project
Free Monthly News and Business Magazine published in Ghana, West Africa by Orion Advertising Company Ltd. 
Uploaded and Edited by Uffe Jon Carlson.Free Monthly News and Business Magazine published in Ghana, West Africa by Orion Advertising Company Ltd. Uploaded and Edited by Uffe Jon Carlson.
Other contributorsOther contributors



Novartis
Novartis
Jan 2002 - Jan 2005Jan 2002 - Jan 2005
Associated with https://prince.es/greenmedica.html
Associated with https://prince.es/greenmedica.html
Show project
Pharmaceutical Communication in SpainPharmaceutical Communication in Spain
Other contributorsOther contributors



VolunteeringVolunteering
Volunteer technical Assistant
Volunteer technical Assistant
Volunteer technical Assistant
ESA & Centre National d'Études SpatialesESA & Centre National d'Études Spatiales
Jan 1990 - Dec 1990 · 1 yrJan 1990 - Dec 1990 · 1 yr
Science and TechnologyScience and Technology
Supervising completion of cooling systems as a volunteer assistant at the new ESA Arian 5 launch infrastructure in French Guyana, South America for the French space agency CNES, Centre National d'Etudes Spatiales and a Danish contractor, Tubotec International AS.Supervising completion of cooling systems as a volunteer assistant at the new ESA Arian 5 launch infrastructure in French Guyana, South America for the French space agency CNES, Centre National d'Etudes Spatiales and a Danish contractor, Tubotec International AS.…see more
SkillsSkills
 You’ve added the maximum number of skills You’ve added the maximum number of skills

Quality Improvement
Quality Improvement
Company logo
4 experiences across Carlson Capital Denmark and 3 other companies4 experiences across Carlson Capital Denmark and 3 other companies
Confidentiality
Confidentiality
Company logo
5 experiences across Carlson Capital Denmark and 4 other companies5 experiences across Carlson Capital Denmark and 4 other companies
Show all 100 skills
RecommendationsRecommendations
Show all pending

ReceivedReceived
GivenGiven
GBEASOR Alain
GBEASOR Alain
GBEASOR Alain
· 1stFirst degree connection
Technical Advisor on Innovation ||Trade Facilitation || Technology and Digital Entrepreneur || Innovative Strategist & Creative Thinker & Change Management || Telecom Network || Biotechnology || Sustainability ManagementTechnical Advisor on Innovation ||Trade Facilitation || Technology and Digital Entrepreneur || Innovative Strategist & Creative Thinker & Change Management || Telecom Network || Biotechnology || Sustainability Management
February 25, 2012, UFFE J. was senior to GBEASOR but didn't manage GBEASOR directlyFebruary 25, 2012, UFFE J. was senior to GBEASOR but didn't manage GBEASOR directly
Uffe Jon is a great and creative director who was instrumental in mentoring and directing our creative team at Orion Advertising.. He was quick to inspire and his knowledge of the creative and media industry was inspirational...Uffe Jon is a great and creative director who was instrumental in mentoring and directing our creative team at Orion Advertising.. He was quick to inspire and his knowledge of the creative and media industry was inspirational...
Jonathan Daifuku
Jonathan Daifuku
Jonathan Daifuku
· 1stFirst degree connection
Architecture, Interior design and Product DesignArchitecture, Interior design and Product Design
November 17, 2009, Jonathan worked with UFFE J. on the same teamNovember 17, 2009, Jonathan worked with UFFE J. on the same team
Highly intelligent and motivated. Always ready to offer a helping hand. Uffe understands computers and computer programs differently than most. At best, most understand the outer shell, whereas one gets the sense Uffe lives within the program.Highly intelligent and motivated. Always ready to offer a helping hand. Uffe understands computers and computer programs differently than most. At best, most understand the outer shell, whereas one gets the sense Uffe lives within the program.
Show all 3 received
PublicationsPublications
ENJOY Magazines
ENJOY Magazines
Orion Advertising Company Ltd · Oct 1, 2010Orion Advertising Company Ltd · Oct 1, 2010
Show publication
News and Lifestyle magazine based in Accra, GhanaNews and Lifestyle magazine based in Accra, Ghana
Other authorsOther authors

Enjoy Accra
Enjoy Accra
Orion Advertising Ltd · Oct 1, 2008Orion Advertising Ltd · Oct 1, 2008
Show publication
Free Monthly News and Lifestyle Magazine published in Ghana by Orion Advertising Company Ltd. Uploaded and Edited by Uffe Jon Carlson.Free Monthly News and Lifestyle Magazine published in Ghana by Orion Advertising Company Ltd. Uploaded and Edited by Uffe Jon Carlson.
Other authorsOther authors

LanguagesLanguages
Catalan
Catalan
Limited working proficiencyLimited working proficiency
Danish
Danish
Native or bilingual proficiency